Hi, everyone, in this letter, I want to talk about the JavaScript versions, all right, now, before
starting this lecture, I have to mention that this nature is not actually mandatory.
You can go ahead and skip this lecture and you can go to the next election where we create a JavaScript
file and link it to this e-mail where we start practicing JavaScript.
All right.
And then when you gain some sort of knowledge of JavaScript, you can come back.
But if you're really fond of theory, I just want to go over, like in a couple of minutes, just go
over how JavaScript was created and what different versions of JavaScript mean, OK?
So JavaScript is actually an ECMAScript standard.
All right, JavaScript is an implementation of the ECMAScript standard, and you might you might have
heard like E is six years, seven years.
2015 is 2016 and so on and so forth.
Now, for a very long time, the version of JavaScript that all browsers ran was ECMAScript three.
All right.
Version four was canceled due to feature creep, which means that there were they were trying to add
too many things at once.
Well, iOS five was a huge version for JavaScript.
iOS 215, which is also called ESX, was also a huge version.
Since then, the ones in charge decided to release one version per year to avoid having too much time
idle between releases.
OK, now we have JavaScript versions from iOS three all the way to E 11, OK?
And they are all referring to a standard called ECMAScript.
ECMAScript is the standard upon which JavaScript is based.
It is often abbreviated to s ECMAScript s right.
That's why JavaScript is called E like the different versions of JavaScript.
They're called E is like five years, six years, seven years, eight.
OK, now besides JavaScript, other languages also have implemented ECMAScript before.
We have an action script, which is the flash scripting language, which is like losing its popularity
and has been officially discontinued in 2020.
We also had J script, which was Microsoft scripting dialect, and when the browser wars were at their
peak, Microsoft had to come up with with its own version of the Internet Explorer and the language.
Right.
But of course, JavaScript, we should never forget.
The JavaScript is the most popular and widely used implementation of iOS.
You might ask, okay, why this odd name?
Eckmann.
Now, Eckmann is an international Suess Standards Association that is in charge of defining international
standards.
When JavaScript was created, it was presented by Netscape and Sun Microsystems.
Now Sun Microsystems is the maker of Java programming language.
And now you guys know that word.
The name of JavaScript comes from.
It is a very poor choice of name, but it's the one that we have to live with.
All right.
And they presented the JavaScript to XMA and they gave it the name Alkmaar Dash 262, alias ECMAScript.
Right.
So as of now, the only popular language supporting ECMAScript spec is JavaScript.
The current version of JS is ECMAScript 220 or twenty twenty or is 11, which was released in June 2020,
which we are going to talk about as well.
Now, the major improvement of JavaScript came with the ESX version, which is also called ECMAScript
2015.
Now the year is added to the name because it was released in that year.
OK, and this version is a fundamental version of the ECMAScript standard.
Before E 2015, ECMAScript specifications were commonly called by the additions.
So E is five is the official name for the ECMAScript specification update published in 29 in 2009,
sorry, in 2009.
Now, what does this why does this happen during the process that led to his 2015?
The name was changed from ESX to year 2015.
But since this was done late, people still referenced it as he is six.
OK, and the community of developers, they have not left the edition.
Naming Behind the World is still calling iOS releases by edition numbers, which is actually incorrect.
You have to call the press releases not by edition no, but by the year in which they are published.
Now published four years after the latest standard revision, ECMAScript five point one.
It is also marked with the switch from edition number to your number.
So it should not be named ESX, although everyone calls it as such.
But yes, 2015 is more appropriate instead.
Now just bear with me.
We are getting to the end of the matter is five was 10 years in the making from 1999 to 2009.
And as such it was also a fundamental and very important revision of the language.
But now so much time has passed and it is not worth discussing how previous five code worked.
All right.
So since this long time passed between iOS 5.1 and he is six, the release is full of important new
features and major changes in suggested best practices in developing JavaScript programs to understand
how fundamentally Estonia 2015 is.
We just have to keep in mind that this version, this just with one that is 215 or ESX version came
the specification document went from 250 pages to almost 600 pages.
So at the end of this letter, I just want to say that in this course, we are not going to talk about
the E five or previous versions.
We are going to start studying JavaScript by starting from the from the major changes that came in the
language.
And that was e 2015 or as the community calls it, is ESX.
So we are going to start studying JavaScript, starting from the ESX all the way to iOS 11 orat, which
is the latest version of JavaScript.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.